# Juz 8-10

## Surah Araf

**verses 1-30**


> [!NOTE] 
> **Summary**: Satan was arrogant and refused to bow down before adam, so he was sent to hell. His sole mission is to lead mankind astray. Adam and Eve ate the apple and then became shameful of their nakedness. Before they ate the evil apple, they were pure and holy and di not care about worldly things like nakedness. Then Allah sent Adam and Eve down to Earth.

>Allah asked, “What prevented you from prostrating when I commanded you?” He replied, “I am better than he is: You created me from fire and him from clay.” (12)

Clothing is used to sheath our nakedness, and righteousness is clothing for the internals, the heart. 

>O children of Adam! We have provided for you clothing to cover your nakedness and as an adornment. However, the best clothing is righteousness. This is one of Allah’s bounties, so perhaps you will be mindful. (26)

>Whenever they commit a shameful deed,1 they say, “We found our forefathers doing it and Allah has commanded us to do it.” Say, “No! Allah never commands what is shameful. How can you attribute to Allah what you do not know?” (28)

**verses 30-50**

> [!NOTE] 
> **Summary**: Allah shows a description of the joy the people in paradise will have and the fear and terror the people in hellfire will have.

>O Children of Adam! Dress properly whenever you are at worship. Eat and drink, but do not waste. Surely He does not like the wasteful. (31)

>Ask, ˹O Prophet,˺ “Who has forbidden the adornments and lawful provisions Allah has brought forth for His servants?” Say, “They are for the enjoyment of the believers in this worldly life, but they will be exclusively theirs on the Day of Judgment.1 This is how We make Our revelations clear for people of knowledge.” (32)

>For each community there is an appointed term. When their time arrives, they can neither delay it for a moment, nor could they advance it. (34)

>Surely those who receive our revelations with denial and arrogance, the gates of heaven will not be opened for them, nor will they enter Paradise until a camel passes through the eye of a needle. This is how We reward the wicked. (40)

> As for those who believe and do good—We never require of any soul more than what it can afford—it is they who will be the residents of Paradise. They will be there forever. (42)

>We will remove whatever bitterness they had in their hearts.1 Rivers will flow under their feet. And they will say, “Praise be to Allah for guiding us to this. We would have never been guided if Allah had not guided us. The messengers of our Lord had certainly come with the truth.” It will be announced to them, “This is Paradise awarded to you for what you used to do.” (43)

>The residents of the Fire will then cry out to the residents of Paradise, “Aid us with some water or any provision Allah has granted you.” They will reply, “Allah has forbidden both to the disbelievers, those who took this1 faith ˹of Islam˺ as mere amusement and play and were deluded by ˹their˺ worldly life.” ˹Allah will say,˺ “Today We will ignore them just as they ignored the coming of this Day of theirs and for rejecting Our revelations.” (50-51)

**verses 50-100**

> [!NOTE] 
> **Summary**: Allah relates the stories of the previous prophets like Noah and Lot warning their people to worship God, but their people didn't listen and were destroyed as a result. 

Do not wait before it's too late. Believe and do good before the day of judgement. 

>Do they only await the fulfilment ˹of its warning˺? The Day it will be fulfilled, those who ignored it before will say, “The messengers of our Lord certainly came with the truth. Are there any intercessors who can plead on our behalf? Or can we be sent back so we may do ˹good,˺ unlike what we used to do?” They will have certainly ruined themselves, and whatever ˹gods˺ they fabricated will fail them. (53)

He is the one who controls life and death.

>He is the One Who sends the winds ushering in His mercy. When they bear heavy clouds, We drive them to a lifeless land and then cause rain to fall, producing every type of fruit. Similarly, We will bring the dead to life, so perhaps you will be mindful. (57)

Allah's destiny is inevitable. You cannot escape God's punishment, so don't do anything to deserve his wrath. 

>Did the people of those societies feel secure that Our punishment would not come upon them by night while they were asleep? Or did they feel secure that Our punishment would not come upon them by day while they were at play? Did they feel secure against Allah’s planning? None would feel secure from Allah’s planning except the losers. (97-99)

**verses 100-130**

> [!NOTE] 
> **Summary**: The magicians of the pharoah submitted to Allah and even accepted death, underscoring their true belief and realization that death is nothing compared to the afterlife and a meeting with their lord. 

>And the magicians fell down, prostrating. They declared, “We ˹now˺ believe in the Lord of all worlds—the Lord of Moses and Aaron.” Pharaoh threatened, “How dare you believe in him before I give you permission? This must be a conspiracy you devised in the city to drive out its people, but soon you will see. I will certainly cut off your hands and feet on opposite sides, then crucify you all.” They responded, “Surely to our Lord we will ˹all˺ return.  Your rage towards us is only because we believed in the signs of our Lord when they came to us. Our Lord! Shower us with perseverance, and let us die while submitting ˹to You˺." (120-126)

**verses 130-180**

> [!NOTE] 
> **Summary**: Allah mentions that the prophet pbuh was the unlettered prophet mentioned in the Torah and Gospel. 

>Say, ˹O Prophet,˺ “O humanity! I am Allah’s Messenger to you all. To Him ˹alone˺ belongs the kingdom of the heavens and the earth. There is no god ˹worthy of worship˺ except Him. He gives life and causes death.” So believe in Allah and His Messenger, the unlettered Prophet, who believes in Allah and His revelations. And follow him, so you may be ˹rightly˺ guided. (158)

>Whoever Allah guides is truly guided. And whoever He leaves to stray, they are the ˹true˺ losers. (178)

>Indeed, We have destined many jinn and humans for Hell. They have hearts they do not understand with, eyes they do not see with, and ears they do not hear with. They are like cattle. In fact, they are even less guided! Such ˹people˺ are ˹entirely˺ heedless. (179)

The blind and deaf people are those who are not guided and swayed by monothesim.

>Indeed, We have destined many jinn and humans for Hell. They have hearts they do not understand with, eyes they do not see with, and ears they do not hear with. They are like cattle. In fact, they are even less guided! Such ˹people˺ are ˹entirely˺ heedless. (179)

>Allah has the Most Beautiful Names. So call upon Him by them, and keep away from those who abuse His Names.1 They will be punished for what they used to do. (180)

**verses 180-190**

4 fucking bangers back to back

>As for those who deny Our signs, We will gradually draw them to destruction in ways they cannot comprehend. I ˹only˺ delay their end for a while, but My planning is flawless. (182-183)

Islam is the natural answer reached after trying to comprehend the universe, nature, and the cycle of life and death. It all leads back to God, who asserts that this worldly life is nothing more than a delusion.

> Have they ever reflected on the wonders of the heavens and the earth, and everything Allah has created, and that perhaps their end is near? So what message after this ˹Quran˺ would they believe in? (185)

> Whoever Allah allows to stray, none can guide, leaving them to wander blindly in their defiance. (186)

> They ask you ˹O Prophet˺ regarding the Hour, “When will it be?” Say, “That knowledge is only with my Lord. He alone will reveal it when the time comes. It is too tremendous for the heavens and the earth and will only take you by surprise.” They ask you as if you had full knowledge of it. Say, “That knowledge is only with Allah, but most people do not know.” (187)

### Favorite quotes

> As for those who believe and do good—We never require of any soul more than what it can afford—it is they who will be the residents of Paradise. They will be there forever. (42)

>The residents of the Fire will then cry out to the residents of Paradise, “Aid us with some water or any provision Allah has granted you.” They will reply, “Allah has forbidden both to the disbelievers, those who took this1 faith ˹of Islam˺ as mere amusement and play and were deluded by ˹their˺ worldly life.” ˹Allah will say,˺ “Today We will ignore them just as they ignored the coming of this Day of theirs and for rejecting Our revelations.” (50-51)

>Did the people of those societies feel secure that Our punishment would not come upon them by night while they were asleep? Or did they feel secure that Our punishment would not come upon them by day while they were at play? Did they feel secure against Allah’s planning? None would feel secure from Allah’s planning except the losers. (97-99)

>Indeed, We have destined many jinn and humans for Hell. They have hearts they do not understand with, eyes they do not see with, and ears they do not hear with. They are like cattle. In fact, they are even less guided! Such ˹people˺ are ˹entirely˺ heedless. (179)

>As for those who deny Our signs, We will gradually draw them to destruction in ways they cannot comprehend. I ˹only˺ delay their end for a while, but My planning is flawless. (182-183)
## Surah Anfal

### Summary

**verses 1-50**

>The ˹true˺ believers are only those whose hearts tremble at the remembrance of Allah, whose faith increases when His revelations are recited to them, and who put their trust in their Lord. ˹They are˺ those who establish prayer and donate from what We have provided for them. It is they who are the true believers. They will have elevated ranks, forgiveness, and an honourable provision from their Lord. (2-4)

There are some people who are destined to be ignorant because that is just in their nature. Even if they were to be guided, they would have fallen out of guidance. 

>Indeed, the worst of all beings in the sight of Allah are the ˹wilfully˺ deaf and dumb, who do not understand. Had Allah found any goodness in them, He would have certainly made them hear. ˹But˺ even if He had made them hear, they would have surely turned away heedlessly. (22-23)

This worldly life is nothing but a test. Even things which people consider the entire point of life - family and wealth - are just distractions from the hereafter. 

>And know that your wealth and your children are only a test and that with Allah is a great reward. (28)

**verses 50-75**

During the battle of badr, the angels took away the souls of the disbelievers, saying that their punishment in the hereafter is just.

>If only you could see when the angels take the souls of the disbelievers, beating their faces and backs, ˹saying,˺ “Taste the torment of burning! This is ˹the reward˺ for what your hands have done. And Allah is never unjust to ˹His˺ creation.” (50-51)

>This is because Allah would never discontinue His favour to a people until they discontinue their faith. Surely Allah is All-Hearing, All-Knowing. (53)

Never settle for the worldly life when the hereafter is better. 

>You ˹believers˺ settled with the fleeting gains of this world,1 while Allah’s aim ˹for you˺ is the Hereafter. Allah is Almighty, All-Wise. (67)


### Favorite quotes

>Indeed, the worst of all beings in the sight of Allah are the ˹wilfully˺ deaf and dumb, who do not understand. (22)

>You ˹believers˺ settled with the fleeting gains of this world,1 while Allah’s aim ˹for you˺ is the Hereafter. Allah is Almighty, All-Wise. (67)

## Surah Tawbah

### Summary

**verses 1-30**


> [!NOTE] 
> **Summary**: Allah says that justice and belief in God is more important than even family ties, and to confront our family if they are disbelievers and promoting injustice.


In the verse below, Allah assures us that we will be truly tested. That is the only way to prove our virtue and adherence to God's divine will. 

>Do you ˹believers˺ think that you will be left without Allah proving who among you ˹truly˺ struggles ˹in His cause˺ and never takes trusted allies other than Allah, His Messenger, or the believers? And Allah is All-Aware of what you do. (16)

>O believers! Do not take your parents and siblings as trusted allies if they choose disbelief over belief. And whoever of you does so, they are the ˹true˺ wrongdoers. (23)

Allah says that Islam is more important than family ties. This makes sense because our worldly life is temporary and meaningless. You are born, you live, eat, study, die, and billions of other people have repeated the same thing throughout generations, only to be forgotten in the end. There is no palpable effect to having lived. The only transcendent thing possible is God, which is what we should cling to. 

> Say, ˹O Prophet,˺ “If your parents and children and siblings and spouses and extended family and the wealth you have acquired and the trade you fear will decline and the homes you cherish—˹if all these˺ are more beloved to you than Allah and His Messenger and struggling in His Way, then wait until Allah brings about His Will. Allah does not guide the rebellious people.” (24)

**verses 30-50**

> [!NOTE] 
> **Summary**: Allah admonishes the believers for being afraid of martyrdom and coming up with excuses to not fight in Allah's cause. 

>The Jews say, “Ezra is the son of Allah,” while the Christians say, “The Messiah is the son of Allah.” Such are their baseless assertions, only parroting the words of earlier disbelievers. May Allah condemn them! How can they be deluded ˹from the truth˺? (30)

>They have taken their rabbis and monks as well as the Messiah, son of Mary, as lords besides Allah,1 even though they were commanded to worship none but One God. There is no god ˹worthy of worship˺ except Him. Glorified is He above what they associate ˹with Him˺! (31)

If you do not spend wealth in Allah's cause (charity), then you will be among the sinners. 

>O believers! Indeed, many rabbis and monks consume people’s wealth wrongfully and hinder ˹others˺ from the Way of Allah. Give good news of a painful torment to those who hoard gold and silver and do not spend it in Allah’s cause. (34)

>The Day ˹will come˺ when their treasure will be heated up in the Fire of Hell, and their foreheads, sides, and backs branded with it. ˹It will be said to them,˺ “This is the treasure you hoarded for yourselves. Now taste what you hoarded!” (35)

Do not be afraid of martyrdom as that is just your worldly desire to live speaking. The hereafter is much better than anything on Earth.  

>O believers! What is the matter with you that when you are asked to march forth in the cause of Allah, you cling firmly to ˹your˺ land?1 Do you prefer the life of this world over the Hereafter? The enjoyment of this worldly life is insignificant compared to that of the Hereafter. (38)

>If you do not march forth, He will afflict you with a painful torment and replace you with other people. You are not harming Him in the least. And Allah is Most Capable of everything. (39)

The reason why Allah urges Jihad even at the cost of life is because it is the best way to transcend our worldly desire to live and instead reach for something greater and more meaningful. What is difference between dying on the battlefield or dying of old age? You will be forgotten soon anyway, and all the time you thought made a difference really wouldn't have changed anything at all. 

>˹O believers!˺ March forth whether it is easy or difficult for you, and strive with your wealth and your lives in the cause of Allah. That is best for you, if only you knew. (41)

Don't give excuses if you don't want to do difficult things. Stop lying to yourself as it destroys your soul. Do the difficult thing for the sake of your own soul. 

>Had the gain been within reach and the journey shorter, they would have followed you, but the distance seemed too long for them. And they will swear by Allah, “Had we been able, we would have certainly joined you.” They are ruining themselves. And Allah knows that they are surely lying. (42)

> Those who believe in Allah and the Last Day do not ask for exemption from striving with their wealth and their lives. And Allah has perfect knowledge of those who are mindful ˹of Him˺. (44)

Maybe you don't like the idea of martyrdom, and that makes sense, but think about it like this: if you truly had 100% certainty God was real, you would rush to become a martyr because you're 100% sure the afterlife is real. But you may have doubts. Allah addresses your fear of martyrdom by pointing out that your disdain for death comes from  your doubts about the religion and your propensity to cling to this worldly life.

> No one would ask for exemption except those who have no faith in Allah or the Last Day, and whose hearts are in doubt, so they are torn by their doubts. (45)

**verses 50-60**

> [!NOTE] 
> **Summary**: Allah points out the hypocrisy of those scared to be martyrs. They have lost faith and are only muslim by appearance, not accepting the true fact that their worldly lives and thus their deaths mean nothing. They are too scared.  

Allah points out the hypocrisy of the people who were too scared to go to the battle of Hunayn. If the prophet pbuh's army lost, they would have felt relieved they didn't go, and if the prophet pbuh's army won, they would have felt robbed of the war spoils and wish they had gone. 

>If a blessing befalls you ˹O Prophet˺, they grieve, but if a disaster befalls you, they say, “We took our precaution in advance,” and turn away, rejoicing. (51)

Here are the signs of being a hypocrite: 

- praying only half-heartedly
- losing faith in Allah and his messenger
- donate resentfully and with tight fists

>Say, ˹O Prophet,˺ “˹Whether you˺ donate willingly or unwillingly, it will never be accepted from you, for you have been a rebellious people.” And what prevented their donations from being accepted is that they have lost faith in Allah and His Messenger, they never come to prayer except half-heartedly, and they never donate except resentfully. (53-54)

You may look around at the modern world and be jealous of how much they enjoy life, but make no mistake - they are celebrating something temporary and unimportant. Once they die, they will die as disbelievers, not having prepared anything for judgement day. 

> So let neither their wealth nor children impress you ˹O Prophet˺. Allah only intends to torment them through these things in this worldly life, then their souls will depart while they are disbelievers. (55)

**verses 60-80**

>Do they not know that whoever opposes Allah and His Messenger will be in the Fire of Hell forever? That is the ultimate disgrace. (63)

Hypocrites are just like disbelievers in that they enjoy the worldly life too much, engaging in idle talk pretending like their lives aren't just temporary blips on a planet millions of light years away from the nearest galaxy. 

>˹You hypocrites are˺ like those ˹disbelievers˺ before you. They were far superior to you in might and more abundant in wealth and children. They enjoyed their share in this life. You have enjoyed your share, just as they did. And you have engaged in idle talk, just as they did. Their deeds have become void in this world and the Hereafter. And it is they who are the ˹true˺ losers. (70)

Allah shows how hypocrites and believers are the polar opposites of one another:

>The hypocrites, both men and women, are all alike: they encourage what is evil, forbid what is good, and withhold ˹what is in˺ their hands. They neglected Allah, so He neglected them. Surely the hypocrites are the rebellious. (67)

>The believers, both men and women, are guardians of one another. They encourage good and forbid evil, establish prayer and pay alms-tax, and obey Allah and His Messenger. It is they who will be shown Allah’s mercy. Surely Allah is Almighty, All-Wise. (71)

>And there are some who had made a vow to Allah: “If He gives us from His bounty, we will surely spend in charity and be of the righteous.” But when He gave them out of His bounty, they withheld it and turned away indifferently. So He caused hypocrisy to plague their hearts until the Day they will meet Him, for breaking their promise to Allah and for their lies. (75-77)

>Do they not know that Allah ˹fully˺ knows their ˹evil˺ thoughts and secret talks, and that Allah is the Knower of all unseen? (78)

**verses 80-90**


> [!NOTE] 
> **Summary:** the hypocrites who dodged the draft will face a severe punishment for caring about their worldly life and safety more than the hereafter. 


>˹It does not matter˺ whether you ˹O Prophet˺ pray for them to be forgiven or not. Even if you pray for their forgiveness seventy times, Allah will never forgive them. That is because they have lost faith in Allah and His Messenger. And Allah does not guide the rebellious people. (80)

The hypocrites were too worried about their comfortability, wealth, and lives that they lost sight of the bigger picture of life and became losers on the day of judgement. 

> Those ˹hypocrites˺ who remained behind rejoiced for doing so in defiance of the Messenger of Allah and hated ˹the prospect of˺ striving with their wealth and their lives in the cause of Allah. They said ˹to one another˺, “Do not march forth in the heat.” Say, ˹O Prophet,˺ “The Fire of Hell is far hotter!” If only they could comprehend! (81)

>So let them laugh a little—they will weep much as a reward for what they have committed. (82)

Whenever you face something difficult, you can only dodge it if you truly are weak. If you want to be exempt from something even though you have the means to do it, then you are sinful. 

>Blame is only on those who seek exemption from you although they have the means. They preferred to stay behind with the helpless, and Allah has sealed their hearts so they do not realize ˹the consequences˺. (93)

**verses 100-110**

> [!NOTE] 
> **Summary:** if hypocrites are regretful of their sin, then they can hope Allah will forgive them since He is the most merciful. 

Some hypocrites have mastered the art of hypocrisy, while others acknowledge their wrongdoing. Allah will be merciful to them. 

>Some of the nomads around you ˹believers˺ are hypocrites, as are some of the people of Medina. They have mastered hypocrisy. They are not known to you ˹O Prophet˺; they are known to Us. We will punish them twice ˹in this world˺,1 then they will be brought back ˹to their Lord˺ for a tremendous punishment. Some others have confessed their wrongdoing: they have mixed goodness with evil.1 It is right to hope that Allah will turn to them in mercy. Surely Allah is All-Forgiving, Most Merciful. (101-102)

>Do they not know that Allah alone accepts the repentance of His servants and receives ˹their˺ charity, and that Allah alone is the Accepter of Repentance, Most Merciful? (104)

>Certainly, a mosque founded on righteousness from the first day is more worthy of your prayers. In it are men who love to be purified.1 And Allah loves those who purify themselves. (108)

Religion is the best foundation.

>Which is better: those who laid the foundation of their building on the fear and pleasure of Allah, or those who did so on the edge of a crumbling cliff that tumbled down with them into the Fire of Hell? And Allah does not guide the wrongdoing people. (109)

**verses 110-end**

To get to 

> Allah has indeed purchased from the believers their lives and wealth in exchange for Paradise. They fight in the cause of Allah and kill or are killed. This is a true promise binding on Him in the Torah, the Gospel, and the Quran. And whose promise is truer than Allah’s? So rejoice in the exchange you have made with Him. That is ˹truly˺ the ultimate triumph. (111)

> ˹It is the believers˺ who repent, who are devoted to worship, who praise ˹their Lord˺, who fast, who bow down and prostrate themselves, who encourage good and forbid evil, and who observe the limits set by Allah. And give good news to the believers. (112)

Allah stops the prophet pbuh from praying for Abu Talib's salvation.

>It is not ˹proper˺ for the Prophet and the believers to seek forgiveness for the polytheists, even if they were close relatives, after it has become clear to the believers that they are bound for the Hellfire. As for Abraham’s prayer for his father’s forgiveness, it was only in fulfilment of a promise he had made to him. But when it became clear to Abraham that his father was an enemy of Allah, he broke ties with him.1 Abraham was truly tender-hearted, forbearing. (113-114)

You have no excuse after being guided to the truth to disbelieve.

>Allah would never consider a people deviant after He has guided them, until He makes clear to them what they must avoid. Surely Allah has ˹full˺ knowledge of everything. (115)

>Indeed, to Allah ˹alone˺ belongs the kingdom of the heavens and the earth. He gives life and causes death. And besides Allah you have no guardian or helper. (116)

Any type of Jihad is a good deed.

>It was not ˹proper˺ for the people of Medina and the nomadic Arabs around them to avoid marching with the Messenger of Allah or to prefer their own lives above his. That is because whenever they suffer from thirst, fatigue, or hunger in the cause of Allah; or tread on a territory, unnerving the disbelievers; or inflict any loss on an enemy—it is written to their credit as a good deed. Surely Allah never discounts the reward of the good-doers. (120)
### Favorite quotes

>O believers! Do not take your parents and siblings as trusted allies if they choose disbelief over belief. And whoever of you does so, they are the ˹true˺ wrongdoers. (23)

>O believers! Indeed, many rabbis and monks consume people’s wealth wrongfully and hinder ˹others˺ from the Way of Allah. Give good news of a painful torment to those who hoard gold and silver and do not spend it in Allah’s cause. (34)

> Do you prefer the life of this world over the Hereafter? The enjoyment of this worldly life is insignificant compared to that of the Hereafter. (38)

>˹O believers!˺ March forth whether it is easy or difficult for you, and strive with your wealth and your lives in the cause of Allah. That is best for you, if only you knew. (41)

> Those who believe in Allah and the Last Day do not ask for exemption from striving with their wealth and their lives. And Allah has perfect knowledge of those who are mindful ˹of Him˺. (44)

> No one would ask for exemption except those who have no faith in Allah or the Last Day, and whose hearts are in doubt, so they are torn by their doubts. (45)

> And what prevented their donations from being accepted is that they have lost faith in Allah and His Messenger, they never come to prayer except half-heartedly, and they never donate except resentfully. (54)

> So let neither their wealth nor children impress you ˹O Prophet˺. Allah only intends to torment them through these things in this worldly life, then their souls will depart while they are disbelievers. (55)

>˹You hypocrites are˺ like those ˹disbelievers˺ before you. They were far superior to you in might and more abundant in wealth and children. They enjoyed their share in this life. You have enjoyed your share, just as they did. And you have engaged in idle talk, just as they did. Their deeds have become void in this world and the Hereafter. And it is they who are the ˹true˺ losers. (70)

>Do they not know that Allah ˹fully˺ knows their ˹evil˺ thoughts and secret talks, and that Allah is the Knower of all unseen? (78)

>Do they not know that Allah alone accepts the repentance of His servants and receives ˹their˺ charity, and that Allah alone is the Accepter of Repentance, Most Merciful? (104)

>Certainly, a mosque founded on righteousness from the first day is more worthy of your prayers. In it are men who love to be purified.1 And Allah loves those who purify themselves. (108)

> Allah has indeed purchased from the believers their lives and wealth in exchange for Paradise. They fight in the cause of Allah and kill or are killed. This is a true promise binding on Him in the Torah, the Gospel, and the Quran. And whose promise is truer than Allah’s? So rejoice in the exchange you have made with Him. That is ˹truly˺ the ultimate triumph. (111)

> ˹It is the believers˺ who repent, who are devoted to worship, who praise ˹their Lord˺, who fast, who bow down and prostrate themselves, who encourage good and forbid evil, and who observe the limits set by Allah. And give good news to the believers. (112)

>Allah would never consider a people deviant after He has guided them, until He makes clear to them what they must avoid. Surely Allah has ˹full˺ knowledge of everything. (115)